I. Titanic Dataset Analysis
   A. Explanation and interpretation of the Titanic dataset
   B. Introduction to nominal and ordinal variables in R using Titanic dataset
   C. Discussion on operations valid for different variable types in the Titanic dataset
   D. Examples using the Titanic dataset and posing questions for further analysis

II. Histograms and Distributions
   A. Introduction and definition of histograms
   B. Creation and interpretation of histograms using R and the Titanic dataset
   C. Examination of distributions in Titanic data using histograms
   D. Identification of positive and negative skew in the Titanic dataset
   E. Examples using Titanic variables
   F. Discussion on different types of distributions in the context of datasets like the Titanic

III. Scales of Measurement
   A. Importance and types of scales of measurement crucial for Titanic data interpretation
   B. Focus on the standard scale, the z-scale in Titanic dataset
   C. Conversions and interpretations related to Z-score in the context of Titanic data

IV. Measures of Central Tendency
   A. Role and importance of measures of central tendency in Titanic data analysis
   B. Examples involving Titanic dataset variables
   C. Discussion on different measures of central tendency applicable to Titanic data
   D. Factors in choosing a measure of central tendency in a dataset like the Titanic
   E. Explanation of setting up histograms for Titanic data and types of distribution
   F. Exploration of robustness to outliers in the Titanic dataset

V. Measures of Variability
   A. Introduction to measures of variability using Titanic dataset examples
   B. Explanation of sample variance formula and its calculation in practice using Titanic data
   C. Discussion on the purpose of measures of variability in analyzing Titanic dataset
   D. Examples from the Titanic dataset illustrating variability
   E. Guidance on how to calculate the variance manually using the Titanic dataset 
   F. Brief summary and final thoughts on using statistical measures for Titanic data analysis.